thank you
[Music]
I would say the real core as to why
people resist gratitude besides it's
strange and awkward at the beginning is
the fact that they're scared that they
won't be prepared for the inevitable
Doom that is always around the corner if
they are happy
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
foreign
so I wanted to add a little bit of a
bonus episode in here after talking
about how to build a functional team and
all about dysfunctional teams because I
know that the way that I might listen to
this if I was a CEO might be to see all
the ways that a functional team are not
what I am or not what we have yet and
that I'm just not good enough and then
look at all those signs of a
dysfunctional team and just see them
everywhere and just get really hard on
myself and doubt on myself and down on
my team so I want to talk a little bit
about that and
what would you have to say to somebody
listening to those last two episodes and
just walking out of it feeling like they
just had a one-star meeting with
themselves right
yeah great question so what I would say
is
um that's part of the dysfunction
um that kind of self-talk is is probably
the the root if if not one of the roots
of the dysfunction and it's also
incredibly limiting meaning
there's kind of two ways to get to
Solutions one way to get to solution is
to see what's wrong and and how do you
fix it and the other way to get to a
solution is see what's right and how do
you build on what's right and most
people really focus on the first one
because they have that negative voice in
the head because what's been really
useful for Humanity up until now is to
be able to see what's wrong more than
see what's right because
see what's right is oh I like that Apple
see what's wrong is oh that snake can
kill me
and so we've learned and there's all
sorts of psychological studies that we
tend to look for what's wrong and
especially the more intelligent you are
there's self-criticism is more likely to
be heightened
um so and more nuanced and more nuanced
I believe yeah
exactly so I would say it's really
important
in any kind of analysis is to really be
able to see the data clearly and to see
and in this case it means to see the
positive stuff clearly and one of the
things that I recommend to do that that
creates team cohesion is a gratitude
process where a gratitude session with a
team
and uh when I was doing Venture Capital
we did that at the beginning of every
one of our teams we would have like
three or four rounds of gratitude so
that we could see what was right and how
do we grow it as easily as we saw what
was wrong and how do we fix it and so
you're speaking about gratitude in the
team gratitude for the the company
gratitude and personal lives or just any
any form of gratitude so the way we used
to do it is that before meeting
everybody would say three things that
they're grateful for kind of in a circle
so it'd be like one two three
so everybody would go one time everybody
would go second time the the most
important part of a process like that is
you actually have to feel the Gratitude
you can't you know you can't be like a
five year at the table who just wants to
eat you have to be like really feel into
oh this is something I'm really grateful
for
that's the key part of the process now
if you're working on a problem
it's really important to see what you're
grateful for around what you think is
lack or what you think is the problem so
um and that that helps that expedites
the process so for instance if you feel
like you're always poor and don't have
enough money to be grateful for the
resources you do have is a great way to
figure out how more resources come to
you quickly
so that's a great example where if you
like the biggest issue right now is that
like
your product isn't selling then it would
be really it'd be great to spend
gratitude around this is difficult for
people around your product not selling
because then you can start seeing all
the opportunities in it like oh wow I'm
really grateful that our customers are
telling us what they don't like about
the product I'm really grateful that the
sales people are
are telling us their concerns about what
makes them not be able to sell the
product
I'm really grateful for the learnings of
that before we create a product next
time we should make sure it sells before
we create it and so doing all that
really helps you see what's right and
how to fix it and it gives you all new
solutions to the problem
um
so it's it's doing three rounds of
gratitude it's making sure everybody
feels grateful if it's a neutral kind of
time then I often would do it around the
team like what are we grateful for
around the team so that we could
continue to become more and more
functional
and I think there's a great story about
this and I'm not sure if I've shared it
but I'll share it which is the story I
read about a guy who went to Vietnam and
he was like with save the children or
some such thing and
he was supposed to with fifty thousand
dollars stop malnutrition in kids
um in this County which just seems like
a completely impossible task and then
you've got met at the airport by some
officials like if you don't do this in
six months we're kicking you out like
any and he's got like fifty thousand
dollars so he goes into the first
Village second village and and he
finally finds a village where the kids
aren't malnourished and he's like oh
what's what's happening here and he
found out that instead of the same
amount of rice and two meals it was in
three meals that they took this weed out
of the garden and they out of the rice
paddy and they chopped it up really
finely put it in and then they took
these like little microscopic shrimp and
put them in
and so they had it was just all right
there available
so he saw this he's like oh my gosh and
so what he did was he took that fifty
thousand dollars and he took the moms
from all the other Villages brought them
in with some kids and said look if you
do this this is measurably what your
kids will be different as if you compare
to do this and all of a sudden all the
whole County changed their way of
feeding their children any and he solved
the problem if he was just constantly
thinking about what he didn't have and
what was missing he would never have
been able to solve that problem it has
to come from a place of of gratitude and
seeing what's functional yeah I could
imagine an alternate story where he
tried to use it 50 000 to purchase food
and bring it to the kids and all those
other communities and that
the scalability of that with that money
just wouldn't have wouldn't have done it
yeah yeah like that whatever there's I
think hundreds of billions of dollars
used that way in Africa and didn't work
so something really interesting about
that example is that he didn't go
straight to the to the problem and where
the problem is and a lot of a lot of the
wisdom and Leadership is where there's a
problem look directly at that what
you're kind of saying here is
some form of that but also look for
what's working in the problem and I
think that there's people can have an
allergy to something like you know
gratitude in a meeting when they are
feeling angry before the meeting even
begins as that that's just some sort of
positive scanning or positive
dissociation from what's real and
they'll bring in well I'm just being
realistic and showing what's real here
and this is broken that's broken that's
broken yes what would you say to those
people to help them see both the truth
in both and look to the positive in a
non-dissociative way but see it as a as
a the fertile ground to grow from yeah
what I would say is
um because the people who are going to
do that particular thing are usually
very intellectually based and so what I
would say is let's just do the
experiment so for the next three weeks
we're going to start our meetings this
way and we're going to note how our
decision making changes and if it's
effective if it's ineffective then we
won't do it also
because we're being positive we're not
being pollyannaish we're I want to hear
everything that's going wrong I just
also want to hear everything that's
going right and if you can convince me
that hearing all the data is a bad idea
we can stop it right now
so I I approached that very
intellectually I would approach that
very intellectually and also make it
experimental because if the team doesn't
feel like it's a benefit then why do it
it's far more productive to have the
team know that what they're doing is
beneficial and so you can find another
tool if that one doesn't work
and it's critical that they actually
feel the Gratitude so that person who
you're speaking to would probably most
likely also be the person in the room is
like I'm really grateful that I got a
paycheck
um instead of instead of oh I'm really
grateful that this team
is uh working together in such a way
that allows us all to be paid and allows
me to take care of my children
and really feel the gratitude
and so I would also be quick to call
that out like hey you're either running
the experiment or you're not running the
experiment if I don't like don't
half-ass it because it's like if the
experiment isn't clean you're never
going to learn anything
yeah and that would be dysfunctional
wouldn't it
yeah so the the simple practice is and
this works with your husband and wife
and kids and it's just an incredibly
useful really just beneficial thing and
I would say the real core as to why
people resist gratitude besides it's
strange and awkward at the beginning is
the fact that they're scared that they
won't be prepared for the inevitable
Doom that is always around the corner
if they are happy if they are content if
they're looking for something good to
happen and so having empathy and
compassion for that perspective is also
really important yeah foreboding Joy
exactly that's you know for many people
Joy is just the signal that the other
shoe is going to drop
because it is I mean you don't you're
not enjoy forever it does it doesn't
work like that everything is fleeting so
every up comes down or at least even
your your nervous system will regulate
back to it being normal yeah exactly
yeah so but that's no reason that's like
saying I'm I'm not gonna eat this
beautiful bowl of food because at some
point it'll be gone you know it's just
it's silly but it is the way our nervous
systems respond right
yeah thank you so much yeah great idea
for this uh bonus episode yeah thanks
Brett see you all right bye thanks for
listening to the art of accomplishment
if you enjoyed what you heard today
please subscribe and rate US on your
podcast app we'd love your feedback so
feel free to send us questions or
comments you can reach out to us join
our newsletter or check out our courses
at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
thank you